This morning, we're watching growing threats
of the israel/hamas war spreading to a much
wider conflict, new overnight, Israeli military
ramping up air strikes after announcing it
was expanding the ground assault to the entire
gaza strip including in south, where so many
civilians have fled, the idf say the strikes
destroyed 20 on hamas targets.
>> The U.S. Navy destroyer came to the rescue
of three commercial ships that were attacked
by iran-backed houthi rebels.
We're also keeping a close eye on Israel's
northern border with Lebanon, where they've
been exchanging fire with Hezbollah.
Three israelsosoldiers were hurt by mortar
shells fired from Lebanon.
We have team coverage.
Let's start with CNN's Ben wedeman in Jerusalem.
Expanding it to the entire gaza
[6:01:42 AM]
Expanding it to the entire gaza strip over
the weekend, where the civilians who have
moeftd to the south supposed to go?
>> Reporter: That I think is a question that
many people in gaza are asking, we know that
more than 80% of the population of gaza is
already displaced, many have gone to the south,
now the Israelis over social media have put
out a map showing hundreds of individual blocs
that are numbered and on theory people can
go to that map there's a qr code, and nowhere
is safe and where is not the problem is most
people in gaza don't have electricity to charge
their phones.
Don't have an internet connection.
Therefore, they're very much really left to
their own devices and of course another problem
is, already the shelters, the schools that
have been converted into shelters in gaza
are already crammed with people, as many as
400 to 500 people per toilet, if there's even
a
[6:02:45 AM]
toilet, if there's even a toilet.
Phil, poppy.
>>> We saw on Saturday, fighting in the north
of Israel across the border with Lebanon,
Hezbollah, saying one of their fighters was
killed.
What does that indicate to you, does that
indicate the beginning of a broader, expansion
of this to the north and more broadly between
not just Israel and hamas but Israel and Hezbollah?
>> Reporter: Well, starting on the 8th of
October, Hezbollah basically entered into
this fight with limited strikes on Israeli
poxes in some communities on the other side
of the border, but it's worth noting that
during the seven-day truce, they also observed
the truce, they didn't open fire, but what
we have seen since the
[6:03:47 AM]
but what we have seen since the truce broke
down on Friday morning there's been a real
intensification of the back and forth fire
between Hezbollah and the Israelis.
I've been in touch with our correspondent
in Lebanon, he said there's hourly shelling
back and forth.
Poppy.
>> Quite telling.
Ben reporting for us in Jerusalem, thank you
very much.
Phil.
>>> Exchanges in the north just the latest
example that every hour the threat that America
could get dragged directly into the war seems
to grow.
U.S. Military said a U.S. Navy destroyer and
three commercial ships were attacked in an
hours-long assault in the red sea.
Launched ballistic missiles and drones.
The U.S. Blaming the attack on
[6:04:48 AM]
The U.S. Blaming the attack on rebels backed
on Iran.
It's stoking fears of a wider conflict.
Natasha joins us live from the Pentagon.
To give an example for people on the map where
this is all happening, Israel up here, Ben
talking about Lebanon, we're talking specifically
in this area here, the red sea, down in Yemen,
proxy organizations tied to Iran, have been
a significant player on attacks on U.S. Ships
and other commercial ships, I think the big
question right now, particularly in the wake
of those hostage negotiations breaking down,
is this a sign that an escalation is coming
or just a return to what we saw the six, seven
weeks before that pause?
>> This was a particularly active day in the
red sea.
Iran-backed houthi rebels.
[6:05:53 AM]
This was a number of attacks, four attacks
on three separate commercial vessels in the
southern red sea including one attack in which
the houthis used a ballistic missile.
The uss carney responded to each of these
attacks which occurred on Sunday at several
different times throughout the day and many
of them resulted in damage to these commercial
vessels in the southern red sea and the U.S.
Now says that this is really, really dangerous,
obviously, not only did the uss carney respond
to these attacks but they also shot down a
number of drones that were launched from these
houthi-controlled territories in Yemen.
Clearly they're taking advantage right now
of the tumult in the region of the U.S. Presence
in the region to try to attack these ships
and the houthi-run Yemeni run forces they'll
continue to wage these attacks
[6:06:54 AM]
continue to wage these attacks against these,
quote, Israeli ships and those aligned with
Israel, standing in solidarity with Palestinians.
The U.S. Central command said that these attacks
pose a quote
a direct threat.
Importantly they say that have every reason
to believe that these attacks are fully enabled
by Iran, now the big question is how the U.S.
Is going to respond, of course we've seen
the U.S. Military strike these iran-backed
groups in Iraq and Syria.
But Yemen whether they're going to go after
the houthis in Yemen is an entirely different